README.md, before:

# Jekyll Foundation

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/core77/jekyll-foundation.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/core77/jekyll-foundation)
[![devDependencies](https://david-dm.org/core77/jekyll-foundation/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/core77/jekyll-foundation#info=devDependencies)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/core77/jekyll-foundation](https://badges.gitter.im/core77/jekyll-foundation.svg)](https://gitter.im/core77/jekyll-foundation?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

This is a Jekyll project with Zurb Foundation 6 based off of [this starter project]( https://github.com/core77/jekyll-foundation).

It provides a [Gulp.js](http://gulpjs.com/) workflow with

- Browsersync (live reload and synchronised browser testing)
- Concatenation and minification of CSS and JavaScript files
- Asset management is done by Bower (and Composer if you need serverside libraries)  
- Deployment with rsync

# Required
Git  
Ruby and Ruby Gems  
Jekyll - gem install jekyll  
Bundler - gem install bundler (mac users may need sudo)  

NodeJS - use the installer  
GulpJS - npm install -g gulp (mac users may need sudo)  
Bower - npm install -g bower  

### Optional
Composer (installs PHPMailer)  
Make (used with rsync for deploying)

# Local Installation

Git clone this repository, or download it into a directory of your choice. Inside the directory run

1. bower install (reference: .bowerrc and bower.json)
2. npm install (reference: package.json)
3. bundle install (reference: Gemfile and Gemfile.lock)
4. composer install (optional, reference: composer.json and composer.lock)  

Do all that in one step: make install ('composer install' disabled by default

# Usage

### Tasks

npm start  
This will build your Jekyll site, give you file watching, browser synchronization, auto-rebuild, CSS injecting, Sass sourcemaps etc.  

npm run build  
This builds your site for production, with minified CSS and JavaScript. Run this before you deploy your site!  

http://127.0.0.1.xip.io:3000  
Here you can access your site. If you want to access it with your phone or tablet, use the external access address which is showing up in the terminal window.  

http://127.0.0.1.xip.io:3001  
Access the Browsersync UI.  

### Foundation for Sites Components

We don't want to include unused CSS or JavaScript.

```
Uncomment the components you want to use
1. Sass in /assets/scss/foundation/_foundation.scss  
2. JavaScript in /gulp/config.yml in javascript.src (you need to restart gulp)
```

Customize the variables used by Foundation in the settings file located in /assets/scss/foundation/.
Copy the default settings from the foundation-sites package (/assets/vendor/foundation-sites/scss/settings/_settings.scss) and then change them to your needs  

Place your custom sass in the subfolders of /assets/scss/. These folders follow the SMACSS architecture. This should be the most scalable solution - from small to very large sites.

### Deploy your site

Rsync is used here to sync our local _site with the remote host. Adjust the SSH-USER, SSH-HOST and REMOTE-PATH in the Makefile.

Be careful with these settings since rsync is set to delete the files on the remote path!

Deploy with
```
make deploy
```.

# Restrictions

### compress.html layout

Inline JavaScript can become broken where // comments used. Please remove the comments or change to /**/ style. compress.html Docs

Commit message:

Implements _src folder and _dest build folder; .gitignores _dest

README.md, after:

# Jekyll Foundation

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/core77/jekyll-foundation.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/core77/jekyll-foundation)
[![devDependencies](https://david-dm.org/core77/jekyll-foundation/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/core77/jekyll-foundation#info=devDependencies)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/core77/jekyll-foundation](https://badges.gitter.im/core77/jekyll-foundation.svg)](https://gitter.im/core77/jekyll-foundation?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

This is a Jekyll project with Zurb Foundation 6 based off of [this starter project]( https://github.com/core77/jekyll-foundation).

It provides a [Gulp.js](http://gulpjs.com/) workflow with

- Browsersync (live reload and synchronised browser testing)
- Concatenation and minification of CSS and JavaScript files
- Asset management is done by Bower (and Composer if you need serverside libraries)  
- Deployment with rsync

# Required
Git  
Ruby and Ruby Gems  
Jekyll - gem install jekyll  
Bundler - gem install bundler (mac users may need sudo)  

NodeJS - use the installer  
GulpJS - npm install -g gulp (mac users may need sudo)  
Bower - npm install -g bower  

### Optional
Composer (installs PHPMailer)  
Make (used with rsync for deploying)

# Local Installation

Git clone this repository, or download it into a directory of your choice. Inside the directory run

1. bower install (reference: .bowerrc and bower.json)
2. npm install (reference: package.json)
3. bundle install (reference: Gemfile and Gemfile.lock)
4. composer install (optional, reference: composer.json and composer.lock)  

Do all that in one step: make install ('composer install' disabled by default

# Usage

### Tasks

npm start  
This will build your Jekyll site, give you file watching, browser synchronization, auto-rebuild, CSS injecting, Sass sourcemaps etc.

The site will be built into the `_dest` folder.

npm run build  
This builds your site for production, with minified CSS and JavaScript. Run this before you deploy your site!  

http://127.0.0.1.xip.io:3000  
Here you can access your site. If you want to access it with your phone or tablet, use the external access address which is showing up in the terminal window.  

http://127.0.0.1.xip.io:3001  
Access the Browsersync UI.  

### Foundation for Sites Components

We don't want to include unused CSS or JavaScript.

```
Uncomment the components you want to use
1. Sass in _src/assets/scss/foundation/_foundation.scss  
2. JavaScript in /gulp/config.yml in javascript.src (you need to restart gulp)
```

Customize the variables used by Foundation in the settings file located in `_src/assets/scss/foundation/`.
Copy the default settings from the foundation-sites package (`_src/assets/vendor/foundation-sites/scss/settings/_settings.scss`) and then change them to your needs  

Place your custom sass in the subfolders of `_src/assets/scss/`. These folders follow the SMACSS architecture. This should be the most scalable solution - from small to very large sites.

### Deploy your site

Rsync is used here to sync our local _site with the remote host. Adjust the SSH-USER, SSH-HOST and REMOTE-PATH in the Makefile.

Be careful with these settings since rsync is set to delete the files on the remote path!

Deploy with
```
make deploy
```.

# Restrictions

### compress.html layout

Inline JavaScript can become broken where // comments used. Please remove the comments or change to /**/ style. compress.html Docs
