---
layout: post
title:  "Linux compatibility in IncludeOS"
author: perbu
published: true
date:   2018-11-06 07:43:42 +0200
categories: [linux]
hero: /assets/img/posts/baby_penguin.jpg
author-image: /assets/img/authors/perbu.jpg
summary: "The 0.13 release of IncludeOS includes a new C library, Musl, adding source compatibility with Linux."
---

The last version of IncludeOS, 0.13, is the most significant release we've made to date.  The important change is the depreciation of Newlib, which used to be our C library. The C library is one of the fundamental APIs an operating system can provide. 

In addition to having a C library modern operating systems typically implement [POSIX], a somewhat arbitrary collection of APIs - standardized by IEEE in 1988. We've tried implementing parts of POSIX on our own. It was soul-sucking work, and we gave up on building POSIX support ourselves.

In addition to our lack of POSIX support, we've also been bothered by Newlib's lack of support for paging. Without paging, you cannot write-protect the executable code in memory which means a buffer overflow can very easily translate into remote code execution.

With these two factors in mind, we found [Musl]. Musl is written explicitly for the Linux kernel. In addition to providing a C library, it also provides a complete POSIX implementation on top of it. As a bonus it supports paging.

As Musl is written for Linux we have to implement the underlying system calls that Musl relies on. However, as many of you know, Unikernels typically don't use system calls. So we've used macros in order to map the internal system calls in Musl to function calls to IncludeOS.

Adding Musl means IncludeOS now has a pretty good security architecture. Another advantage is that we are now, to a much greater extent than before, compatible with Linux. If your application can compile on Alpine Linux, or another Linux distribution that uses Musl, we can make it compile on IncludeOS as well. After all, we're providing the same API. The program still can't fork() and there are still portions of Musl we haven't provided the underlying system calls for. POSIX has many dusty corners and we don't really see the need for supporting all of it.

Out of the close to 400 [system calls] Linux provides we have implemented 42 so far. For each system call we implement Musl unlocks the relevant parts of POSIX to us. Moreover, since implementing a system call is typically pretty simple we have an easy way of expanding our Linux support should we need to.

A quick and dirty example follows:

```c
#include <sys/utsname.h>
#include <os>

int main(void) {

   struct utsname buffer;

   errno = 0;
   if (uname(&buffer) != 0) {
      perror("uname");
      exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
   }

   printf("system name = %s\n", buffer.sysname);
   printf("node name   = %s\n", buffer.nodename);
   printf("release     = %s\n", buffer.release);
   printf("version     = %s\n", buffer.version);
   printf("machine     = %s\n", buffer.machine);
  
   return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
```

Running this yields the following output:

	* Brk initialized. Begin: 0x46f000, end 0x46f000, MAX 0x100000
	* mmap initialized. Begin: 0x56f000, end: 0x7fde000
	================================================================================
	 IncludeOS v0.12.0-999-g1850d7404-dirty (x86_64 / 64-bit)
	 +--> Running [ IncludeOS seed ]
	~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
	system name = IncludeOS
	node name   = IncludeOS-node
	release     = v0.12.0-999-g1850d7404-dirty
	version     = v0.12.0-999-g1850d7404-dirty
	machine     = x86_64
	domain name =
    	   [ main ] returned with status 0

The addition of Musl should make it a lot simpler to develop applications for IncludeOS. Specifically we now have a way of easily adding support for other langauge runtimes.


[Musl]: https://www.musl-libc.org/
[system calls]: https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/arch/x86/entry/syscalls/syscall_64.tbl
[POSIX]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/POSIX

